JERUSALEM — The bullet that killed the journalist 
Shireen Abu Akleh on Wednesday has become the central 
point of contention between competing efforts 
by Israelis and Palestinians to investigate 
who shot her.
The Palestinian Authority said on Thursday that 
it had declined a request to give Israeli officials 
the bullet that killed Ms. Abu Akleh, a Palestinian 
American journalist for Al Jazeera who was killed in 
the occupied West Bank during an Israeli raid.
Hussein al-Sheikh, the Palestinian official who 
helps oversee the authority’s relationship with the 
Israeli government, said it would investigate Ms. Abu 
Akleh’s death independently, rejecting Israeli calls 
for a joint inquiry and for the bullet to be assessed 
in an Israeli laboratory. Mr. al-Sheikh also accused 
Israeli soldiers of killing Ms. Abu Akleh, dismissing 
Israeli claims that the journalist may have been hit 
by Palestinian fire.
Palestinian officials say that Israel cannot be trusted 
to investigate the killing, while Israeli officials say 
that the Palestinians are refusing to provide the 
bullet in order to obscure its origin.
Mr. al-Sheikh’s comments came as Palestinians gathered 
in Ramallah, the authority’s administrative hub in the 
West Bank, for Ms. Abu Akleh’s funeral procession, which 
winded through the city toward the headquarters of the 
authority’s president, Mahmoud Abbas.
“This crime cannot pass without punishment,” Mr. Abbas 
said in an address in front of her coffin. He also awarded 
her the Star of Jerusalem, or Al-Quds Star, an honor 
typically bestowed on ministers, ambassadors and members 
of Parliament.
The bullet that killed Ms. Abu Akleh has become the 
focus of two competing narratives about the circumstances 
of her death. Its shape could reveal the gun that fired it, 
and its condition may contain signs about the direction 
and distance it was fired from.
Palestinian officials have conducted an autopsy of Ms. Abu 
Akleh’s body, but had not released its findings by 
Thursday morning.
A veteran and widely admired journalist for Al Jazeera, the 
Qatari-owned news channel, Ms. Abu Akleh was fatally shot 
early Wednesday in Jenin, a city in the northern West Bank 
managed by the Palestinian Authority.
She had been covering clashes between Palestinian militants 
and the Israeli military, which has been conducting 
regular raids in Jenin since March after several recent 
attacks on Israelis by Palestinian residents of the area.
Al Jazeera executives and witnesses said that Israeli soldiers 
had fatally shot Ms. Abu Akleh in a part of Jenin where no clashes 
were taking place, and where there were no nearby Palestinian 
militants. She and several other journalists at the scene 
were wearing blue flak jackets and helmets marked with the word “Press.”